# Power-Plant-Project
In this Project we are Implementing the Gradient Descent and also using Inbuilt Gradient Descent Regressor on the Combined Cycle Power Plant Dataset.

## Combined Cycle Power Plant: Gradient-Descent
A combined cycle power plant (CCPP) is composed of gas turbines (GT), steam turbines (ST) and heat recovery steam generators. In a CCPP, the electricity is generated by gas and steam turbines, which are combined in one cycle, and is transferred from one turbine to another. While the Vacuum is colected from and has effect on the Steam Turbine, he other three of the ambient variables effect the GT performance. In this Project we are Implementing the Gradient Descent and also using Inbuilt Gradient Descent Regressor on the Combined Cycle Power Plant Dataset to predict its output.


## Dataset
The dataset contains 9568 data points collected from a Combined Cycle Power Plant over 6 years (2006-2011), when the power plant was set to work with full load. Features consist of hourly average ambient variables Temperature (T), Ambient Pressure (AP), Relative Humidity (RH) and Exhaust Vacuum (V) to predict the net hourly electrical energy output (EP) of the plant.
    
   
 * **Attribute Information:**
    Features consist of hourly average ambient variables
    - Temperature (T) in the range 1.81°C and 37.11°C,
    - Ambient Pressure (AP) in the range 992.89-1033.30 milibar,
    - Relative Humidity (RH) in the range 25.56% to 100.16%
    - Exhaust Vacuum (V) in teh range 25.36-81.56 cm Hg
    - Net hourly electrical energy output (EP) 420.26-495.76 MW

    The averages are taken from various sensors located around the plant that record the ambient variables every second. The variables are given without normalization.

## Machine Learning Algos Involved
1.Gradient Boosting Regressor

# Libraries used

1.Pandas
2.Numpy
3.Matplotlib
4.Scikit-learn
5.Seaborn

Steps Involved
------------------
### Task 1 : Import the standard Libraries
We imported the libraries

### Task 2 : Importing the dataset
We imported the datasets and listed top 10 and last 5 records.

### Task 3 : Structure of the Dataset
Describing the data

### Task 4 : Check for missing values in my dataset
We checked the null and missing values, no missing values found.

### Task 5 : Exploratory Data Analysis
Statistics for Combined Cycle Power Plant dataset:

Minimum EP:  420.26

Maximum EP:  495.76

Mean EP:  454.43129319955347

Median EP:  451.74

Standard deviation of EP:  17.13337725345268

First quartile of EP:  439.7375

Second quartile of EP:  468.6675

Interquartile (IQR) of EP:  28.930000000000007

### Task 6 : Plotting
Plotted the graph for EP

### Task 7 : Correlation
Listed top 10 records and plotted the correlation graph.

### Task 8 : Features Plot
Printing all the features

Plotted the graphs for T (Temperature), EP (Exhaust vaccum), AP (Ambient Pressure), RH (Relative Humidity)

Boxplot for T, V, AP, RH

Pairplot for T, V, AP, RH

### Task 9 : Feature Scaling
Imported standard scaler and listed the output in array.

### Task 10 : Gradient Descent Model
Imported the libraby for ML part and imported test dataset for prediction

### Task 11 : Model Evaluation

### Task 12 : Saving the prediction
Saving the model

# Conclusion:
In order to increase the electrical power outputs from power plant we need to have value of low temperature and low vacuum with relative value of humidity and high ambient pressure. With this we will have high electric energy outcome from power plant.





